---
layout: post
title: AWS Snowball
tags: AWS
---

Snowball is a harddisk that can be obtained from AWS. Data can be transferred into the harddisk and the harddisk physically shipped to AWS to move the data to AWS services. This is much faster than sending the data over the internet.

# Types of snowball

1. Snowball - Petabyte scale data transport solution that uses secure appliances to transfer large amounts of data into and out of AWS. Snowball solves challenges with large scale data transfers like high network costs, long transfer times and security concerns. Transferring data with snowball is simple, fast, secure and very cost effective. Snowball has 80TB capacity typically. Uses multiple layers of security designed to protect data with tamper resistant enclosures, 256 bit encryption and industry standard Trusted Platform Module deisnged to ensure both security and full chain of custory of data. Once data transfer is processed and verified, AWS performs a software erasure on the snowball and it can be reused with other users.

2. Snowball Edge - Can contain 100 TB of data and comes with on-board compute and storage capabilities. It is like a little AWS data center that is portable. Allows to run lambda functions. It can be a temporary storage tier for large local datasets to support local workloads in remote or offline locations.

3. Snowmobile - Massive ruggerdised shipping container on a semi trailer. Can transfer upto 100 Petabytes of data. Takes about 6 months to move an exabyte of data instead of 25 years over a 10Mbps line.